[313] Project Structure & TCA Code Consistency Document (#314)
zcash/secant-ios-wallet: CODE_STRUCTURE.md

# Code Consistency & Project Structure
In our project the syntax check is done by [swiftlint]. However, the architecture we use is the [TCA] (The Composable Architecture) and therefore we need to follow some basic principles and rules to hold structure of the files as well as project. This document describes rules for the code as well as project files/folders structure we agreed on. We encourage you to kindly follow these principles.

# Structure of the TCA Store file
For the Store and View as well as folder name we focus on features. So the <feature name> is the bare bone of the TCA code, uppcased!

> ##### Store file

Author: fixed

The TCA consists of 5 blocks (state, action, environment, reducer and store). The TCA code lives in the <feature name>Store file. We defined the following order of sections in this file:
1. Typealiases for the Reducer, Store and a ViewStore.
2. State
3. Action
4. Environment - always present even when no dependencies are defined = never use Void

> 5. Reducer holding private hashable Ids, always use `static let default` reducer. Try to avoid `default: return .none` for the actions, we want the switch exhaustivenes check. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Reducer holding private `Hashable` Ids, always use `static let default` reducer. Try to avoid `default: return .none` for the actions, we want the switch exhaustiveness check. 
```

Author: fixed

6. Store
7. Viewstore
8. Placeholders

Any extension needed is defined under the relevant section except placeholders, those are separated at the very end of the file. Example: 

```swift
// MARK: - State

struct <feature name>State: Equatable { }

extension <feature name>State {
    // anything but placeholder
}

// MARK: - Action
// ...
```

##### Structure of Store & View files

Use the appropriate name for a feature you want to build. The <feature name> must be bare bone of any TCA definition including the folder encapsulating the swift file(s). Example:

```swift
// Project structure
// Folder <feature name> woth following files:

// <feature name>Store.swift
struct <feature name>State: Equatable { }
enum <feature name>Action: Equatable { }
struct <feature name>Environment

// <feature name>View.swift
struct <feature name>: View {
    let store: <feature name>Store
    
    var body: some View {
        WithViewStore(store) { viewStore in EmptyView() }
    }
}

struct <feature name>_Previews: PreviewProvider {
    static var previews: some View {
    <feature name>(store: .placeholder)
    }
}
```

Do not omit Previews!

> ##### Navigation

Author: fixed

Navigation is done using routes. Such mechanism consists of Route definition + state and Route action to update the state.
```swift
struct <feature>State
enum Route {
    case <route name>
}
var route: Route?
}

enum <feature>Action {
    case updateRoute(<feature>State.Route?)
}
```

> ##### XCode Template

Author: fixed

We created a TCA template that automatically prepares the TCA files and code with the rules defined in this document. You can download it [here].

> In order to put it to the XCode, do the following:

Author: fixed

1. open Finder
2. press cmd + shift + G
3. paste `/Applications/Xcode.app/Contents/Developer/Library/Xcode/Templates/File Templates`
4. copy paste the TCA.xctemplate to the `MultiPlatform/Source/`

The template is customizable and consists of 3 sections:

> 1. TCA Store text field: that is essentially the <feature name>

Author: fixed

2. Selector of either
a. Empty (= TCA file with no navigation included)
b. Navigation (= TCA file with the navigation)
3. Checkbox which allows you to create also a View file if requested.

## Project Structure

> The project is specifically designed to be structured as follows:

Author: fixed

```
Models
    <model>.swift
Wrappers
    Wrapped<dependency name>.swift
Utils
    <util>.swift
Dependencies
    <dependency name>.swift

> Features

Author: I think they used SPM (modules) mostly to prove the composability and independency of the architecture. I don't think we need to do the same approach in our case. I don't see any clear added value because our dependencies are specific for the wallet and the sdk. The way isowords is done is also not necessarily making those modules re-usable. Most of it is not as they are specific modules for the game. We would end up with a tree of dependencies anyway. Re-using 1 module from isowords in some cases means import several modules (the one is dependent of many other and those might be dependent on other as well, clearly noticeable at one of the pointfree videos). 

With a few exceptions like User Defaults module in isowords, an example of a module that can be separated and in the SPM but it's so lightweight that anybody should probably implement its own version, with the needed structure and set of methods (closures).

> Features

Reviewer: I was not necessarily referring to isowords, because that app was hyper modularized to make a point. I'm referring to the "feature modules" they proposed on another of the sample apps that they stated it paid dividends on build times which I can't seem able to find.

    <feature name>
        <feature name>Store.swift
        <feature name>View.swift
        Views (optional)
UI Components
    <component name>
        <component name>.swift
Resources
    Generated (by swiftgen)
    Fonts
    <any other resources go here>
```

> ##### Models

Author: fixed

> Here are the models used in the project, usually data containers shared among several places.

Author: fixed

Examples:
- Transaction struct - holding the data for the transaction
- StoredWallet struct - holding the secured and sensitive data for the wallet

> ##### Wrappers

Author: fixed

> Here are the wrapped modules either from the SDK, iOS itself or wallet custom modules. Purpose of the wrapper is to provide `live` implementation and version used for the testing, usually one of the following:

Author: fixed

- `mock` - mocked data
- `throwing` - throwing errors
- `test` - specific setup for particular tests

Examples of the wrappers:
- SDK: Mnemonic, DerivingTool, SDKSynchronizer, ...
- iOS: FileManager, UserDefaults, NotificationCenter, ...
- wallet: DatabaseFiles, WalletStorage, ...

> ##### Utils

Author: fixed

Here are the utilities used in the project. Usually helpers or extensions of the build in types. 
Examples:
- helpers: navigation links, bindings, view modifiers, ...

> - types: string extensions for the conversions, UInt/Int64 extensions to handle balance computations, ...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- types: `String` extensions for the conversions, `UInt`/`Int64` extensions to handle balance computations, etc.```

Author: fixed

> ##### Dependencies

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Dependencies
```

Author: fixed

> Here are basically modules used as dependencies by the reducers. Some dependencies are already living in the SDK and only wrapper is implemented (stored in the wrappers folder) for it. Sometimes the dependency is implemented in a way that it doesn't need to be wrapped (typically it uses some wrapped helper) - in such case, the `live` vs. `mocked` static instances are implemented directly within the same file as the dependency.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Modules used as dependencies by the reducers are located here. Some dependencies are already living in the SDK and only a wrapper is implemented (stored in the wrappers folder) for it. Sometimes the dependency is implemented in a way that it doesn't need to be wrapped (typically it uses some wrapped helper). In that case, the `live` vs. `mocked` static instances are implemented directly within the same file as the dependency.
```

Author: fixed

> ##### Features vs. UI Components

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Features vs. UI Components
```

Author: fixed

We distinguish between smaller building blocks used in the composed complex UIs vs. screens and flows - understand features. Essentially we talk about two topics:

> 1. Features - typically screeens, the whole flows, complex UIs and business logics that are usually not shared or used many times.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Features: typically views representing entire screens, the whole flows, complex UIs and business logic that are usually not shared or used many times.
```

Author: fixed

> 2. UI Components - smaller building blocks typically used several times, like buttons. Even when used just once, the nature of UI component is to be re-used so it's not forming standalone feature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. UI Components: smaller building blocks typically used across the application and features, like custom controls (buttons, input fields) or visual elements. Even when used just once, the nature of a UI component is to be reused so it's not forming standalone feature.
```

Author: fixed

Examples:
- features: Send Flow, Onboarding Flow, Settings Screen, Scan Screen, Profile Screen, ...

> - UI Components: buttons, chips, button styles, view modifiers, drawer, custom text fields, shapes, ...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- UI Components: buttons, chips, button styles, view modifiers, drawer, custom textfields, shapes, ...
```

Author: fixed

>  When implementing something new, just ask yourself "Am I building anything that can be shared and used several times or am I building a standalone feature?".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 When implementing something new, just ask yourself "Am I building something that can be shared and used several times or am I building a standalone feature?".
```

Author: fixed

> In case of a *flow feature* the following structure is usually used:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In case of a *flow feature* the following structure is used:
```

Author: fixed

```swift
<feature name>Flow
    <feature name>FlowStore.swift
    <feature name>FlowView.swift
    Views
        <some 1st>View.swift
        <some 2nd>View.swift
        <some nth>View.swift
```

> ##### Resources

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Resources
```

Author: fixed

> All project resources go to this folder. Images, fonts, generated files (by swiftgen for example), sounds, assets, string files, ...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All project resources should be placed in this folder. Images, fonts, generated files (by swiftgen for example), sounds, assets, string files, ...
```

Author: fixed
